---
title: Results of functionality comparison of JVM based JSON Schema Validation Implementations
permalink: /functional
layout: single
header:
  image: /assets/images/json.png
toc: true
classes: wide
---

## Introduction

The purpose of this test is to determine how functionally complete each validator implementation is.

Each implementation is run through a suite a functional tests.
The tests cover almost every aspect of the different drafts of the JSON Schema specification.
The tests cover both positive cases, where the validation should succeed, and negative cases, where validation should fail.
The tests cover both _required_ features and those deemed _optional_ by the specifications.

The tests are curated by the JSON community and are available [<i class="fab fa-fw fa-github"/>&nbsp; on GitHub][JSON-Schema-Test-Suite]{: .btn .btn--success}{:target="_blank"}.

**Note:**
The [Bowtie Project <i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>][Bowtie]{:target="_blank"} aims to provide similar feature 
comparison for _all_ validator implementations.
At the time of writing it does not cover all JVM implementations and does not cover optional schema features.
Though, these are being worked on.  Ultimately, this project should replace this comparison.
{: .notice--warning}

## Results

For each schema specification an implementation supports, the number of test cases that pass and fail is tracked, 
split into those covering _required_ vs _optional_ features.

### Summary of results

The charts below illustrate the percentage of required and optional test cases that pass for each draft of the JSON Schema,
and aggregate/overall graphs that show the pass rate across all the drafts an implementation supports.
Results are broken down into separate _required_ and _optional_ graphs.

#### Overall

<div>
    <canvas id="overallRequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="overallOptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_2020_12

<div>
    <canvas id="draft2020RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft2020OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_2019_09

<div>
    <canvas id="draft2019RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft2019OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_07

<div>
    <canvas id="draft07RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft07OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_06

<div>
    <canvas id="draft06RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft06OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_04

<div>
    <canvas id="draft04RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft04OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Draft_03

<div>
    <canvas id="draft03RequiredChart"></canvas>
</div>
&nbsp;
<div>
    <canvas id="draft03OptionalChart"></canvas>
</div>

#### Summary results table

<div>
 <table id="summaryTable"></table>
</div>

**Note:** &gt;&gt;&gt; scroll to the right for more columns on the table.
{: .notice--warning}

In the table above the columns cover the different JSON schema draft versions, plus an **overall** aggregate result, 
and each row is the results for a specific validator implementation.

Unpopulated cells indicate the implementations does not support that specific schema draft.

Populated cells details the number (and percentage) of **r**equired and **o**ptional test cases that **pass** and **fail**.

Each populated cell also contains a **score**, indicating the functional completeness of the implementation, out of 100.
The **score** weights test results of _required_ features at triple _optional_ features, meaning 75% of the score is reserved for _required_ features,
whereas _optional_ features only account for a maximum 25% of the score.

### Detailed results

Below is a more details set of results for each specification draft an implementation supports.
Each table details the number of test cases that pass and fail for each test file in the JSON schema test suite.

{% include per-draft.md %}

[//]: # (Chart scripts: https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/)
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js"></script>

[//]: # (Table scripts: https://github.com/fiduswriter/Simple-DataTables)
<link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-datatables@7.3.0/dist/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-datatables@7.3.0" type="text/javascript"></script>

<script>
    const implData = {% include implementations.json %};

    const summaryData = {% include functional-summary.json %};
    
    let filteredRows = summaryData.rows.filter(row => row[0] !== "Jackson");

    function createRow(row){
      function formatResult(result){
        if (result.score === 0.0) {
          return "";
        }

        return  "Score: " + result.score
           + "<br>pass:"
           + "<br>r: " + result.requiredPass + "(" + result.requiredPassPct + "%)"
           + "<br>o: " + result.optionalPass + "(" + result.optionalPassPct + "%)"
           + "<br>fail:"
           + "<br>r: " + result.requiredFail + "(" + result.requiredFailPct + "%)"
           + "<br>o: " + result.optionalFail + "(" + result.optionalFailPct + "%)"
           ;
      }
      let cells = row.slice(1).map(result => formatResult(result));
      cells.unshift(row[0]);
      return cells;
    } 

    new simpleDatatables.DataTable("#summaryTable", {
        paging: false,
        searchable: false,
        data: {
            "headings": summaryData.headings.map(h => h + '\u00A0'.repeat(Math.max(0, 25 - h.length))),
            "data": filteredRows.map(row => createRow(row))
        }
    });

    const chartContainer = document.getElementById('complianceCharts');

    const createChart = (id, column, title, field, suggestedMin) => {
        const name = summaryData.headings[column];
        const chartData = summaryData.rows
            .filter(row => row[0] !== 'Jackson')
            .filter(row => row[column][field] !== 0)
            .toSorted((r1, r2) => r2[column][field] - r1[column][field]);
        new Chart(document.getElementById(id), 
            {
              type: 'bar',
              data: {
              labels: chartData.map(row => row[0]),
              datasets: [{
                 data: chartData.map(row => row[column][field]),
                 borderColor: chartData.map(row => implData.find(impl => impl.shortName === row[0]).color),
                 backgroundColor: chartData.map(row => implData.find(impl => impl.shortName === row[0]).color.replace('rgb', 'rgba').replace(')', ',0.2)')),
                 borderWidth: 1
               }]
              },
              options: {
                plugins: {
                    title: {
                        display: true,
                        text: `[${name}] ${title}`
                    },
                    legend: {
                        display: false
                    }
                },
                scales: {
                  y: {
                    beginAtZero: false,
                    suggestedMin: suggestedMin,
                    suggestedMax: 100
                  }
                }
              },
            })
        };

        createChart('overallRequiredChart', 1, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('overallOptionalChart', 1, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft2020RequiredChart', 7, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft2020OptionalChart', 7, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft2019RequiredChart', 6, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft2019OptionalChart', 6, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft07RequiredChart', 5, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft07OptionalChart', 5, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft06RequiredChart', 4, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft06OptionalChart', 4, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft04RequiredChart', 3, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft04OptionalChart', 3, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
        createChart('draft03RequiredChart', 2, 'REQUIRED tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'requiredPassPct', 80);
        createChart('draft03OptionalChart', 2, 'OPTIONAL tests pass percentage (higher is better)', 'optionalPassPct', 50);
</script>

[JSON-Schema-Test-Suite]: https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite
[Bowtie]: https://github.com/bowtie-json-schema/bowtie

