---
title: Other considerations when picking a JVM-based JSON Schema Validation Library
permalink: /considerations
layout: single
header:
  image: /assets/images/json.png
classes: wide
---

While this micro-site focuses on the functionality and performance of the validation libraries, this should not be the _only_ information driving a choice.

Things to also consider are:

- Is the project in active development? When was its last release?
  The `Project activity` column on the [Libraries under test table]({% link _docs/1. implementations.md %}) attempts to show this, 
  but relies on someone updating the site if a project becomes inactive. 
  Projects that aren't active come with their own set of issues, especially around bug & security fixes, or dependency updates.
- What dependencies does it bring in? Less being more. 
  For example, `Vertx` brings in Netty as a dependency, which seems unnecessary.
  Whereas, `DevHarrel` is very light on dependendies. 
- Size of the library's jar file and its dependencies.
  The `Jar size` column on the [Libraries under test table]({% link _docs/1. implementations.md %}) shows the size of the library's primary jar, 
  but does not _yet_ include the size of any other dependencies this brings in. 
- Is the implementation fit for purpose. 
  For example:
    - The `Snow` implementation documents itself as a reference implementation. (This may go some way to explain its poor performance).
    - The `Vertx` implementation doesn't seem to provide a way to control how remote references are loaded.
    - The `Justify` implementation supports validating while streaming large JSON documents, rather than having to load the entire document into memory.
